Heavy bright sun
================

A novel by caryoscelus

Chapter One
-----------

"Ha.. Ha.. Ha.."

Heavy erotic panting, smell of sex and perfume and barely perceivable odor of
burnt hair — all of this would be experienced by someone who would enter the
room at that moment. In reality, nobody entered it. It was empty.

    ***

— Я не читаю бумажные книги, — a tall man in black leather said in a tired tone,
— Но дело не в том, что я не люблю бумагу. Дело в том, что толщина прочитанного
и толщина непрочитанного являются своеобразным спойлером, которого я и стараюсь
избежать.

I didn't reply. Not only because he wasn't speaking to me, but mostly due to the
sad fact that my understanding of russian at the moment was limited to words
"да", "бля" and "мартышка". Incidentally, the last one used to be my nickname in
college, which i'd rather not talk about in details.

— Поэтому пожалуйста не надо приписывать мне то, чего я не говорил. И уж тем
более записывать меня в сообщества, к которым я никакого отношения не имею. Это
попросту некрасиво.

Even though i couldn't understand him, i still listened. Not because i enjoy
listening to foreign speech — i grew out of it quite some time ago — but because
i'm not trained to ignore sounds of human voice when their source is located in
immediate proximity.

As i just mentioned, his voice sounded tired, but for all i knew that could be
deliberate acting or just a bad habit. The man himself did not look tired. Nor
did he had a reason to be tired: he spent twelve out of last twenty four hours
sleeping. Though now that i think about it, i probably wasn't aware of that last
fact at the time. Still, i was doubting his sincerity.

He listened for reply in his headphones for a while, then took them off,
scratched his balding head and finally looked at me.

— Sorry to keep you waiting, — he spoke with that strange accent which many
foreigners adopt when they try too hard to sound british.

— No, no. Please, don't apologize, Mr. Blue, — i replied, trying hard not to
start mimicking his manner of speech, — I perfectly understand you have
other important matters on your mind.

He made a weird sequence of faces, starting with a slight surprise and ending in
a slight irritation. At the moment i did not understand reasons for that and was
somewhat startled by it and almost forgot to continue.

— I wanted to ask a favor of you, — i opened my handbag and took a small printed
photo out of it. Or perhaps it was a cut-out piece of photo.

— You want *that* man dead? — he replied with what i believed was honest
surprise.

    ***

A big fish floated in the pond. The pond would look too small for the fish to
any possible observer, yet the fish, being unaware of it, felt pretty
comfortable. It was only to be expected, for the fish spent most of its life in
spaces smaller than the pond, sometimes much smaller.

    ***

— Yes, yes, no and yes, — three hours after leaving Blue i was participating in
some stupid rapid question game.

— Yes, no, yes and undecided, — answered the same questions a young woman in
front of me.

I remember having started to wonder how can one be undecided about that last
question, but honestly i don't even remember what it was about now.

At that point the game was interrupted by the loud speaker announcement. I
couldn't hear what exactly it said, but i knew it was a station name and by
reaction of my companions i figured it was the station we needed.

We left the suburban train and found ourselves on a short concrete platform,
covered by a thin slippery frost. Harsh cold wind blew in our faces and the
remaining feeling of warmness and comfort was gone in a matter of seconds.

— Come, Bella, let's move! — somebody pulled me on the shoulder, returning me to
present reality.

We walked hurriedly towards the platform end, which to my surprise had no
turnstiles and even stairs were in a sorry state. My companions, however, seemed
to consider this normal.

Our train left the station, accompanied by pitch-shifting sound of engines and
wheels rattling on rail joints. As the last car swept past us, countless
railways appeared before our eyes. Or at least so i felt at the moment, for when
i saw that station later in the day light, it didn't occur to me that way
anymore.

We started crossing those rails, carefully watching our step not to stumble or
slip in the dark. Two or three of us turned on pocket lights, but they weren't
powerful enough to help others.

Ever since we left the train, my mind started to grow hazy and dreamy and by the
time we arrived onto "solid ground" i was being more surprised by the fact that
i still walked on than by any peculiar events happening in the world around me.

Still, i remember those events, at least some of them. After leaving the
station, we entered dirty and dark town, stole a car and drove on a road that
started badly and ended terribly. At that point i finally gave up to haziness
and fainted.

    ***

The bottle stood on the porch, almost as if glancing into the dark night
outside. Did someone forget it there in a hurry or left intentionally to drink
up later? Or was it maybe placed there as a secret sign to that shady fellow
lurking on the street? Or, perhaps, it appeared there by the sheer will of god,
who had nothing better to do at the time?

    ***

I came to on a couch in a small room without windows and a faint night lamp as
the only source of light. Despite the under-ventilated atmosphere, i felt
refreshed. Having quickly remembered the situation i ended up in, i was amused
by how unconcerned i was about it.

— Hey, Izzy, are you always so carefree? — I spoke to myself aloud, which i do
way too often when find myself alone in a new environment.

I waited for an answer for a few minutes and when it failed to come, finally got
up. As i did, i knocked over some boxes lying on the floor and a small cloud of
dust erupted from it, along with rustling sounds. Trying to be more careful, i
walked to the door.

I started hearing voices and music when i got close, but sounds really exploded
when i opened it. I was startled for i wasn't prepared that this
boringly-looking door would be so good at sound isolation. Now only a couple
meters of a narrow appendix separated me from the room full of people.

— Ну я ему и говорю, что его монады мне ни к чёрту не сдались! Мне бы
однострочник на перле накатать и забыть.

— Давайте ещё по одной!

— Самое интересное происходит, конечно, у тебя в голове. Не на первый день, нет.
В первые несколько дней только лёгкий дискомфорт, а вот пробудешь под водой
недельки две — вот тогда крыша и начнёт подвижки давать.

— Аааааа! Мочи его!.. Ну давай!

— ..и в итоге такой балаган устроили..

I felt like everybody was talking at once and only some half minute later had a
more accurate account of situation. This was indeed quite a typical party at a
late stage; most were already high and had already formed circles and cared
little of the outside world. There were two things that made it look so strange
at first: small room that condensed everybody to the point of circles mixing up
and sober me being so out of place.

I had been staying there for a while, watching and listening and pondering, when
somebody finally noticed me. It was a bearded guy in a sweater who was involved
in some heated discussion that apparently was coming to an end.

— Эй, Белла! Okh, ehrm.. I mean, hey Bella, how was your sleep? — he said,
standing up and stumbling around. He had pretty typical russian accent and a
particularly funny way of pronouncing interjections like he was reading them
letter by letter.

— It was fine, thank you..

I wanted to ask his name, but he read it on my face before i could figure out
the most appropriate way of asking.

— You probably don't remember me, do you? I'm Dima. I believe we've met a couple
years ago, on that conference... i don't quite remember what it was called.

— Cut those formalities, Diiima. And sit down, you're obstructing my view!

— Oh, Bella, i didn't realize you were here. Fancy running into you here.

— Would you care for a drink? Or would you prefer some pot?

Suddenly everybody became aware of me and then in a few moments i was in the
center of attention. I took the joint offered to me by the girl who was
"undecided" back on the train (and whom i barely recognized for she looked quite
different with loose hair and casual clothes). It wasn't my first time to smoke
weed, but still i hesitated for a few moments for i had all the reasons to
expect the unexpected.

    ***

Slow fan made slow chopping sounds as its blades were cutting throw the thick
dirty air. The air was always bad here, always hard to cut through, but the fan
had to work without a minute's rest. Ever since it was launched, it never
stopped. Ever since it was installed, it was never seen by a living being.

But what did it matter? The fan would continue working forever, if it must, for
it was perfect.


Глава вторая
------------

Яркое летнее солнце будит меня, пробившись лучами сквозь щели жалюзи, и я
мгновенно осознаю, что опаздываю. Нет времени на размышления, и всё же натягивая
школьную форму, я успеваю подумать о том, как редактор вырежет все мои неюклюжие
движения и очередное моё утро превратится в идеальный образчик современного
монтажа.

Однако мне нет дела до её трудностей и я без малейших угрызений совести оставляю
кровать незаправленной, а окна — зашторенными. Прохожу в кухню и здороваюсь с
холодилькиом:

— Охайо гозаэмасс, рэзокко-сан. Кёомо йорощку нэ.

Холодильник отвечает довольным жужжанием. Я открываю дверцу и достаю пачку
йогурта, которая сегодня сойдёт за завтрак. Закрываю дверцу, кладу йогурт на
стол, достаю ложку и, произнеся дежурное "итадакимасс!", приступаю к своей
нехитрой трапезе.

Через пять минут последний раз окидыаю взглядом квартиру и размышляю о том, что
в такие моменты было бы неплохо иметь настенные часы. Но тянуться в карман за
смартом только для того, чтобы уточнить на сколько минут я опаздываю, мне
откровенно лень.

Выйдя из подъезда, в очередной раз проклинаю местный климат: если даже сейчас
уже можно почувствовать жар солнечных лучей, то к полудню можно ожидать
форменный ад.

Спускаясь с холма, машинально обращаю внимание на отсутствие утренней толпы
школьников — ещё один индикатор моего опаздания. Вместо школьников вместе со
мной идут хмурые "сарариманы" и случайно выползшие в столь ранний час ниты. Мне,
впрочем, нет до них никакого дела, но я не ускоряю шаг, потому что уже и так иду
с крейсерской скоростью.

А вот и школа, в которой меня как обычно ждут увлекательные приключения
обыкновенного школьника. Первым приключением станет преодоление кордона,
выставленного доблестным ученическим советом для отлова опаздавших (тот факт,
что сами дежурные из-за этого задерживаются на уроки, конечно мало кого
волнует).

Представляю, как обрадовался бы продюссер, если бы для преодоления этого
препятствия я бы разбежался и с боевым кличем пронёсся через вход мимо дежурных
на сверхзвуковой скорости. Или попросту запрыгнул бы в окно, избежав любых
контактов с ними. Но я не буду радовать их подобными вещами: не говоря уже обо
всём прочем, это попросту дурной вкус.

Вместо этого я рассматриваю два основных варианта: понадеяться на то, что мне
повезёт с дежурными, или на то, что где-нибудь на первом этаже будет открытое
окно. Вообще-то мы — комитет по борьбе с узаконенным насилием — всегда стараемся
оставлять эту лазейку для опаздывающих, но к сожалению учсовет и учителя тоже не
дремлют и регулярно ходят и закрывают окна.

Потратив почти минуту на размышления и не прийдя ни к какому выводу, я решил всё
же свериться с часами. 8:31 — последний звонок прозвенел минуту назад, значит с
вероятностью около 60% меня не станут сопровождать к директору или завучу, но
отругают и сделают соотсветствующую запись, если только мне не удастся
как-нибудь договориться. Если же я потрачу время на поиски отрытого хода, а
потом вернусь к официальному входу, веротяность что меня загребут достигнет 86%.

"Щоганай-нэ" — бормочу себе под нос я. Остаётся последнее средство.

Я достаю из портфеля первую попавшуюся тетрадь и вырываю из неё листок.
Складываю его вдвое, затем, повторяя привычные движения, делаю ещё несколько
изгибов и наконец самолётик готов. Критически осматриваю его и, не обнаружив
особых недостатков, отправляю лететь.

Сделать бумажный самолётик может каждый, но не каждвый самолётик полетит далеко.
однако я потратил немало часов на совершенстование этого мастерства и теперь не
сомневаюсь в своём превосходстве.

И действительно, ветер подхватывает его и самолётик летит вперёд и вверх,
поднимаясь вдоль школьных стен и как будто насмехаясь над учениками и учителями,
запертыми внутри. Я представляю как любопытные взоры обращаются к окнам, а
недовольные взрослые начинают ворчать в ответ.

Сам же я разворачиваюсь и иду в противоположную сторону. Порыв встречного ветра
ударяет мне в лицо и на несколько мгновений, закрыв глаза, я представляю себя
героем, преодолевающим все трудности на своём пути. Открыв глаза, я оглядываюсь
в пустой надежде разглядеть блики камеры, прячущейся в кустах или в соседнем
доме.

Затем я возвращаюсь к реальности и поворачиваю за угол. Опять оглядываюсь по
сторонам — теперь уже чтобы проверить, нет ли поблизости учителей или других
"опасных" личностей. "All clear", — заключаю я и, подпрыгнув, хватаюсь рукой за
пожарную лестницу.

Подтянувшись, я ползу вверх, балансируя между скоростью и безопасностью подъёма.
И, конечно, представляю восторг режиссёра и его довольную физиономию (не то что
бы я имел что-то против него, но у него настолько примечательное лицо, что
трудно называть его иначе как физиономией).

Но если зрители будут убеждены, что для меня это раз плюнуть, то я-то разумется
знаю, насколько это далеко от истины. Я пытаюсь игнорировать страх, но на самом
деле мои конечности начинают ощутимо дрожать уже на середине лестницы и
единственное, что спасает меня от позорного бегства — то, что возращаться назад
ничуть не спокойнее.

Преодолев третий этаж, я делаю небольшую передышку. Обычно в такой ситуация я бы
послушал любимую группу, чтобы подбодрить себя, но сейчас не лучшее время
доставать смарт и наушники. Поэтому я лишь напеваю шёпотом пару строчек из
песни:

"It doesn't matter how hard my life can be,
sore demo i won't give up makeruki shinai!"

Хоть немного зарядившись энергией, я ползу дальше. Вспотевшие ладони
проскальзывают, но всё так же отчаянно продолжают цепляться за холодные
металлические перекладины.

Наконец, мой подъём, превратившийся в пытку, подходит к концу. Я хватаюсь за
поручни ведущие на крышу и подтягиваю свою уставшую тушку на уже горячий
рубероид.

Да уж, надо сказать, что я не ожидал такого исхода, когда, небрежно запуская
самолётик, решил лезть на крышу. Я, конечно, сумел пробраться в школу в обход
заград-отряда, но теперь вынужден просто лежать на крыше и приходить в себя. А,
впрочем, пошло оно всё к чёрту!

Подумав так, я ложусь поудобнее, кладу под голову портфель и смотрю на чистое
голубое небо. В отличии от известного персонажа, мне нет дела до размышлений о
красоте или человечности, или смысле жизни, я просто наслаждаюсь своим
(не)заслуженным отдыхом.

Но, увы, расслаблялся я не долго.

"Бамммм" — над крышей раздаётся резкий металлический звук, и, обернувшись, я
вижу распахнувшуюся дверь, а за ней чёрную-пречёрную ауру. Проходит несколько
мгновений саспенса и я успеваю придумать несчётное количество сценариев своей
безвременной кончины прежде чем наконец на сцену вылезает виновник шума.

Или, точнее, виновница — Токисака Айка, известная на всю школу как лучшая
ученица по математике (не только в своей параллели, но за всю историю школы) и
строгая блюстительница правил. Элегантным движением поправив юбку, она выходит
из тени на освещённую солнцем крышу и, гневно сверкая глазами, направляется в
мою сторону.

Тут я наконец понимаю, что как бы я не тренировал своё воображение, оно всё ещё
не дотягивает до того, что порой преподносит реальность. Но чтобы ни уготовила
мне судьба, надо принимать её удары с достоинством и я поднимаюсь с колен и
отряхиваю форму, пытаясь выглядеть как можно спокойнее. И кажется мне это
удаётся в достаточной мере, чтобы Токисака пришла в бешенство.

— Омаэ.. омаэ.. — шепчет она, подойдя ко мне на расстояние в пару метров.

На мгновение мне приходит в голову мысль ответить "Охайо гозаэмасс,
Токисака-сама" и как ни в чём не бывало пройти мимо. Но рассудок тут же
возвращается ко мне и я понимаю, что если сделаю так — уже не отделаюсь каким-то
там походом к директору. Однако ничего лучше я придумать не могу и продолжаю
стоять молча.

— Омаэ-на, — наконец, она немного успокаивается и приходит в себя, — нани о щте
ирунда конна токорони?

Её интонация и даже лицо подозрительно спокойны, но я слишком хорошо знаю её,
чтобы принимать это за чистую монету. Я тщетно пытаюсь придумать оправдание,
которое прозвучит достаточно убедительно, чтобы она не сбросила меня с крыши на
месте.

"Вчера вечером я задремал на крыше и проспал начало уроков, потому что забыл
завести будильник" — нет, не то. Даже несмотря на то, что часть про будильник
соостветствует действительности, всё остальное — очевидное враньё.

"Я только что прилетел на такси-вертолёте, но поскольку я почувствовал себя
плохо в дороге, решил прилечь отдохнуть" — ну это уже вообще ни в какие ворота
не лезет.

Не сумев придумать ничего лучше, я говорю правду.

— Ано-нэ, Токисака-сан, орега-нэ.. нэсугощимащта.

Сказав это, я тут же понимаю, какую глупость сморозил. Проспать-то я, конечно,
проспал, но это вряд ли объясняет то, как я оказался на крыше.

— Соре дэ? — невозмутимо требует продолжения Токисака, как будто ожидала
подобного ответа.

— Цкамаэтакунай кара, хащиго ноботта.

— Дэ? Соре га сэцумэи нарэнай кедо.

Это в конец меня озадачило. Какого ещё ответа она может ждать от меня?

— Макемащта, — ответил я первое, что пришло в голову и поклонился, — Аната но
качи дэсу.

— Аа, гаккари, — как ни странно, Токисака оказалась  скорее разочарованной таким
ответом, чем разгневанной или раздражённой. Тёмная аура, которую я почувствовал
в первый момент её появления, как будто испарилась пока я пытался оправдаться.

Додумав все самые насущные мысли, я замечаю, что мы всё ещё стоим друг напротив
друга. Потихоньку реальность возвращается ко мне, и я понимаю, что, какой бы
странной ни была текущая ситуация, нам так или иначе надо идти на уроки. Но
указывать на это моей непредсказуемой собеседнице совсем не хочется и я лишь
достаю смарт — свериться с часами. На экране 8:40 и никакого сочуствия
опаздавшим.

— Пфф, — Токисака морщится, — цумаранай йацу.

Не добавив ни слова больше, она разворачивается и решительной походкой
направляется к выходу с крыши. Промедлив несколько секунд, я бегу за ней.


Chapter Three
-------------

Finally i sat on the floor near the wall — in a first place that was relatively
free and "secure": i always prefer to have solid cover behind my back. On my
right there was a circle of three people staring at a small flat screen hanging
on the wall. Two of them were also gripping some controllers and clicking on
buttons. Apparently they were playing some old-school game. I stared at the
screen for a while, trying to understand what it was about, but then my
attention was grabbed by someone patting on my shoulder.

It was that same girl from before; apparently she took an interest in me or
something. I still didn't know her name, so i opened my mouth to ask, but she
spoke first.

— So, how are you enjoying the party?

The question startled me a bit, since i was lying asleep in the next room just a
few minutes ago. But then i realized she might have been partying too hard to
notice.

— I'm just warming up, you know. But it's kind of nostalgic. I haven't been at a
party ever since i left college.

— Mmm, i suppose you're not a party-goer type. May i guess what brings you here
then?

— Eh, sure, go ahead.

She tilted her head a bit, a gesture that looked well-rehearsed. I should admit
it still looked pretty damn cool.

— You're looking for someone, aren't ya? — she spoke in a such way that i could
not possibly guess what she was implying, if she even implied anything.

— Maybe, — i tried to play along for a while and said that with a hint of smile.

It was too early to jump to conclusions. That girl could have been a spy, an
unexpected ally, an overly nosy observer. Or she could have been flirting with
me without any back thoughts.

— Incidentally, i didn't quite catch your name, — i decided i should take
initiative to have some time to consider further actions.

— Ah, i'm terribly sorry. I'm Sasha. Sasha Ginzburg, freelance journalist and
fanfic writer, — she laughed nervously — I didn't mean to sound so formal
though. It's just my habit to introduce myself like that when talking in
english.

— Isabella Norton, pleased to meet you, — i said in a satirically formal tone
and made a joking bow, — At the moment i'm an unemployed traveller, spending my
severance pay.

I could see some confusion on her face and thought for a moment that she might
have not understand the term i used, but then she smiled understandingly. We
looked at each other for a few more moments before bursting into laughter.

    ***

A person in a bright masquerade costume sat alone on an expensive-looking sofa.
"Is it a man or a woman?" was the question that many asked themselves seeing
that person, but nobody ever dared to ask aloud. Presently, there was nobody
else in the room, yet the person started to talk in a sweet androgynous voice:

— It is my pleasure to have appeared here, after travelling through many places
and pages, yet my stay won't be long for other matters are waiting for my
attention.

And then, in a puff of smoke, the person seemed to disappear.

    ***

There was a strange moment of silence and i became acutely aware of tension that
have been accumulating in the "gamers' club" for a while now. It ended up with a
muted explosion sound, followed by exasperated exclamation. Apparently those two
finally lost their game. They got up, stretching their limbs, and went off,
cursing loudly.

The third guy, who i dubbed "observer", continued to stare at the screen for a
few dozen seconds and then looked at the room expectantly. When his gaze met
mine, he stopped and said in a hopeful voice:

— Хочешь сыграть?

I could guess he was asking me something, but there wasn't enough context to
guess what it was about. His face started to look puzzled when i failed to reply
or give any sign of understanding.

— He asks whether you want to play, — Sasha translated, rescuing both of us, —
We could play together, if you'd like.

— Ah, yes, you both welcome, — replied the "observer", apparently feeling
flustered by the situation.

I was a bit confused myself, for i was too engaged in my paranoid thoughts to be
expecting so sudden intrusion.

— Come on, lets do it, — noticing my indecisiveness, Sasha pulled me along and i
found myself in front of the big pulsating label "Play Again?.." placed on a
static explosion background.

— Huh, so you're into this stuff too? — i asked her after failing to come up
with anything better to say.

— What are you talking about? Everybody is into this stuff these days! It's
fucking S.T.U.F.F. — she literally pronounced it letter-by-letter and i was
unsure whether that was to indicate significance of the word or a proper name, —
And don't worry if you don't understand something: i'll be right here to help.

— But before you start, — the "observer" added, — i explain you couple things.
First of all, i am master of game, Orpheus. Second: if you win, you get *prize*.

Self-proclaimed master Orpheus made an especial emphasis on the word "prize",
implying some significance. Perhaps it was meant to encourage me being
competitive, but i had no plans of immersing myself too much and losing my
vigilance.

Nevertheless, i picked up controller and prepared for an unknown battle.

    ***

It moved slowly and almost peacefully, but it never averted its gaze from its
prey. It tried to appear big and fluffy, but to no avail. The prey, the
observers and even the tiny drop of water could clearly see its evil nature.

    ***

"Booom" — the car crashed in front of me, dealing massive damage. I ran further
down the street, trying to get away from all the explosive stuff that seemed to
be so attracted to me.

— Bella, on your right!

At this point i already had no idea where did this voice come or whose voice it
was, but i instantly dodged and turned back, ready to shoot. But when i saw what
was coming, i ended up doing a couple more rollbacks before finally enjoying the
sight of another explosion. This time it was a fucking helicopter falling onto
the street. I started wondering how long it would take to escalate into nuclear
shoot-out between starship squadrons.

But then a few moments later i was back in game, trying to find a peaceful place
to heal. I ended up crashing through the windows into some fashion store and had
to kill all the security guards who supposedly continued to protect the store,
never-minding apocalypse happening on the streets. After the last guard dropped
dead, i picked up first-aid box and started wondering what i was doing there.

"What am i doing in this war-torn city? Who am i fighting? Who am i running away
from?" — i thought while bandaging my blood-covered limbs. Then a warning voice
returned me into battle-state:

— We can't be staying here much longer. Sniper squad has already been deployed,
they'll hunt us down quickly.

— Where do we go then?

— The basement.

I threw away the remaining bandages and went running after Sasha, who was
already approaching a small door with "Staff only" sign on it. Luckily for us,
the door was open and there was nobody inside. We run throw the maze of
corridors that finally led us to a badly lit stair well. I was amazed at how
easily Sasha was choosing the right path as if she was familiar with the place.

Our steps made hollow reverberated sounds as we ran down the stairs. For a while
it was the only noise to be heard, save for our panting and heartbeat. But then
another sound joined in: it was the alarm sirens, going off on a few different
floors at the same time.

"Why?" — meanwhile, i continued to ponder, — "Why should i run through these
wailing sounds, through the blood of my enemies and innocent by-standers,
through the never-ending screams and curses?"

I couldn't name a single reason, yet i continued running further down, continued
to shoot back at hordes of faceless black jacket men who were attacking us in
waves coming from one floor or another.

Finally, after a seemingly endless descending, we came to a stop on the bottom
floor.

    ***

There was a tiny spot of dirt on the window. An old butler tried to wipe it out,
but failed. A young maid tried to wipe it, but failed. So the tiny spot of dirt
remained on the window.

    ***

As we entered the bottom basement floor proper and the door behind shut, i found
myself disoriented by the darkness. For a few seconds i realized i'm literally
staring at a black screen, but then my vision adopted and i could discern
silhouettes of surroundings. We were in a big — if not huge — room, mostly
empty, except for some weird-looking structure in the middle. It was also
surprisingly silent: no sirens, no gunshots, no running steps.

As if to preserve that silence, we didn't speak and walked slowly forward. It
was hard to judge distance in the darkness, especially after that crazy run
through the stairs, so it took us more than i expected to get to that structure.

When we finally approached it, i realized it was a sculpture of a kind. But it
was still too dark to see it clearly and after stumbling in buttons for a few
seconds i turned on my flashlight.

It was a weird sculpture alright. A few tentacles rose from a simple pedestal;
atop them were several bodies, — i couldn't even count them properly for they
were interconnected with each other, — concluded with one double-faced head. The
face looking at the entrance had a cunning smile and sad eyes, but i could only
see a single eye of the second face. At least five hands were advancing from it:
one was holding a coffee cup, another was forming a fist, yet another was barely
gripping a double-edged sword.

I moved around the sculpture to see the rest of it, but no matter how much steps
i made i couldn't see more than a corner of an eye of its second face. It took
me a half of a circle to realize the statue was following me. When i did, i
immediately did a double-roll to the right, expecting laser beams or something.

But the stone creature merely followed me with its gaze and gave no other signs
of being alive or otherwise active.

— What's up with that piece of stone?! — i almost cried for i was pretty
disturbed by its behaviour.

— I'm trying to figure out that myself, — Sasha replied after a few daunting
seconds of silence. She spoke in an oddly calm voice, which only made me feel
even more anxious.

Meanwhile, as i was standing still, nothing changed. I looked around and saw
Sasha a dozen meters form, looking at the sculpture intently. Other then her and
the statue, the room was still empty, yet something deep inside was telling me
that something was wrong. Not even the statue, something else.

I made a three-sixty degree turn around, trying to pierce the darkness before
the creatures lurking there would disappear. But there were no creatures, there
was nothing to be afraid of. The only thing that i was truly afraid now was that
i found myself in this big dark room with a weird stone structure in its center
and only one supposed ally and a semi-automatic in my hand.

Глава четвёртая
---------------

Chapter Five
------------

The leaves were falling from the lotus tree. The days were getting shorter. It
was, without a doubt, autumn. A time when everything either dies or at least
withers into obscurity, falls into abyss or flies off into the deep dark space.

I did neither. Ergo i didn't exist.

    ***

My head hurt. Or was it really head? I couldn't quite understand for everything
was quite mixed up. The statue was no longer gazing at me, which in different
circumstances would be a relief, but now i felt like it was the last real thing
i could concentrate on and when it disappeared i only felt a cold void creeping
into me.

Then i remembered that i should have still had a gun in my hand, but when i
tried to feel my hand, it was nowhere to be found either. "Am i disappearing
altogether?", i thought briefly, but then something bright attracted my
attention. I followed it instinctively, without giving myself any time to
process what's happening.

For a while i felt like i am floating in an abstract space, hopelessly trying to
catch up with that faint pulsating light. Then suddenly the light stopped moving
away and i fell straight into it and everything became blank white around me. I
looked at my body and strangely enough i could now see it, or rather its vague
undulating outlines. As i did, a stray thought occurred to me: "i shouldn't be
watching myself so intently, or i'm going to morph away".

As i switched my gaze, i could see background going darker and rapidly losing
dpi. For a moment i though i could see bare pixels, but then they stretched into
black lines on yellow. Zooming away, i finally understood what that truly was:
an endless chain of tractors harvesting the wheat crops.

"Alright, the wheat is covered, but what about the rice fields?" i thought,
walking on the lonely road that stretched from one horizon to another.

"Nobody cares for rice in these chambers", the voice came from nowhere, "for the
winter comes too early and eats away everything."

"Ah, is that so?", i pronounced inside my head, feeling like i've come close to
understanding something truly important. But then the road suddenly come to a
crossing and i had to choose where to go and all other thoughts withered away.

I turned right for no apparent reason, except for a feeble gut feeling that told
me there was cool water somewhere along those lines. And indeed there was; soon
i walked into the bridge over a small river and, feeling like sun is going to
burn me, stepped into the water and under the bridge.

It was a bit darker and a few kilometers longer than it appeared from the
outside, but i marched on bravely. A few shadows passed me as i walked silently
walked further. I felt thirsty, but couldn't force myself to drink the dirty
water i was walking in. When i looked into it, i saw my own reflected face; it
looked thin and under-fed, but somehow its eyes shone with happiness.

I felt like something was off about that reflection and touched my face. The
bandage was in place, its coarse fabric feeling reassuring against my palm. I
looked again into the water and two laughing eyes looked back at me. Finally,
the revelation stroke me: my mind has wandered off in a different realm and i
should better return swiftly.

But even as i realized that, i still had no idea what exactly to do. I stood
still for some time that i won't even dare to approximate, and then something
bumped into my back. I ran forward, away from it, and soon found myself back in
the fields. There were no tractors anymore, nor any crops, only tranquil green
of raw grass, not limited by any artificial or natural boundaries.

"This can go on forever", i thought and in attempt to get rid of the scenery
closed my eye. The green disappeared, but the darkness didn't come. My mind was
now filled with blue, both the color and the mood.

    ***

"Go on, go on, go on", somebody preached in the darkness. And then repeated
those tiny useless words a half dozen more. And then again, and again, and
again. It no longer sounded like an urge to continue, but it attained a certain
beat to it that was pushing forward, until it succeeded to surface.

    ***

Then i started to hear distant voices. Then i started to feel distant warmth.

And finally, the room with a small pulsating screen and a whole crowd of people
came crashing into me like a spring thunder. I felt my hands stuck on a sweaty
controller and my right index finger still clicking mindlessly, as if counting a
fast tempo.

— Welcome back, — somebody whispered in my ear, — and congratulations.

The voice sounded familiar, but i was still processing the yellow and the green
and the blue in my head to recognize it. I tried to concentrate on the screen
and finally could make out blinking words written on it: "Play Again?"

I almost screamed "no" in response, but then it occurred to me that acting that
way might be not appropriate to situation. I looked around and saw that not much
changed in the real world since i entered this "fucking stuff".

The only people who apparently noticed something was wrong with me were Sasha
and Orpheus. The rest of the party crowd were still happily chatting like
nothing happened. And then i thought that maybe nothing happened indeed: in the
end, it was just my imagination going wild under the drugs and it was quite
possible that i didn't act especially alerting during the trip.

— Congrats, girls! You survived for a whooping twenty five minutes. And now, if
i may.. — Orpheus made a gesture, requesting us to move away, — we have new
contestants to attend S.T.U.F.F. concourse.

I reluctantly moved away, still trying to process what he was saying. Twenty
five minutes?! How long of that did i spend sanely and how long was i wandering
through the mazes of my mind?

— Not feeling good? — suddenly whispered Sasha, — Why don't we go breath some
fresh air.

She said that and dragged me out of the room. Having no energy or reason to
refuse, i followed.

    ***

Each of the four seasons has its own merit, or so the god said.

Let the spring show the creation, let the summer show the life, let the autumn
show the bewilderment and let the winter show the wisdom.

"Bommm" — the bell ringed, filling the neighbourhood. But there was nobody to
hear it and eventually silent won.

    ***

In the dark cold atmosphere of the northern night i quickly came to senses.

— You did surprisingly well, — as if noticing that i'm finally ready to talk,
Sasha said; there was a hint of reverie in her voice.

"What was it?!" — i wanted to say, for now i remembered that the joint and the
game were both forced (?) onto me by her.

— Did you expect any less of me? — i said instead, — That's what i call lack of
faith!

— Ha-ha, don't be so offended! How was i supposed to know that you're so good at
fighting, games and... — she trailed off, as if provoking me to guess what was
it that she left unsaid.

— Well, you shouldn't have asked somebody to be your partner if you don't
believe in them, — i replied, trying to sound mildly offended.

— Even if you say so, i'm not as much interested in winning or the game itself
as i'm interested in *you*, — her voice suddenly became sweet and suggesting at
the end of the phrase.

— Is that so?.. — i continued the pretense, — There's not much interesting about
someone like me. I suppose you might consider me different for being foreigner,
but as far as my experience go, people are not much different around the globe.

— I'm inclined to believe that, but i suppose you misunderstood me, — she said
in a playful voice with a hint of resentment, — I'm not interested in you merely
because you speak a different language. No, if i feel mystery in you, then you
must be the most interesting person in the world, and.. — she trailed off again
and i finally understood this could have gone too far.

    ***

"The moment you start talking is the moment you're doomed to tell lies", an
abstract voice spoke in someone's mind, "The moment you start writing", it
continued, "is not much different. The subtle difference lies, of course, in the
amount of lies communicated".

Глава шестая
------------

Chapter Seven
-------------

I cannot quite understand whether it was my indecisiveness or slow reaction that
led to those events. As soon as i fully understood what was happening, it was
already too late to break and i let Sasha enjoy the kissing. I didn't feel much
myself: perhaps i wasn't really interested in her in that way, or maybe i just
wasn't in the mood, or maybe i was just too busy being careful and alert.

Finally, i got tired and broke away the kiss. For a few moments we were looking
into each other's eyes. For some reason all i could notice was the hue of her
iris. It wasn't regular "blue" which should really be called "bluish grey". Her
eyes were of genuine blue color, with a hint of green around the pupils, so big
in the darkness.

Then the winter wind blew hard into my face, messing up my hair and blocking the
view. Having broken our gaze, i turned away, trying to think about situation at
hand. But i was much too shocked to actually process everything that happened
and in the end all my thoughts concentrated on Sasha, kissing and my feelings.

— Sorry, — she whispered after a while, her voice giving away doubt, — you
didn't like it?

I had no idea what to say and only let out a sigh.

— Well, i suppose i'm not good enough. That's only to be expected.. — she wanted
to continue, but suddenly a melody started to play, which was soon revealed to
be her ring tone.

Sasha hung up furiously, almost ready to throw smartphone onto the ground. She
put it back into her pocket instead, but still couldn't continue whatever she
wanted to say. A new sound caught our attention, now coming from inside the
building: someone's footsteps were approaching the door. Then the door opened
and a guy from the party appeared.

At first i thought he would say we should go back inside or something, but he
offered me his phone instead.

— Isabella? — he asked to confirm my identity, — there's a man who wants to talk
to you urgently.

His voice sounded surprised and even more so disturbed. Reluctantly, i took the
phone from his hand.

    ***

""

    ***

— Be careful, mind the weather, for you request is fulfilled, — said the
familiar voice in the same familiarly tired tone.

— Blue? — i asked mechanically, too surprised to react properly on the meaning
of his words.

— So i am indeed. Lets meet at the station at the dawn, — he said that and hung
up. For a few seconds i listened for short beeps and then returned phone to its
owner.

    ***

"Of all minor demons everyone should have their favourite", a distorted voice
said through the radio noise in a brightly sunlit room, filled with old
furniture, "for someone who doesn't will have to deal with greater demons. And i
can say from experience that it is painful".

Voice paused and only static could be heard for a while. Then something clicked
and the voice started again: "Of all minor demons everyone..."

    ***
