Chapter Third
-------------

Finally i sat on the floor near the wall — in a first place that was relatively
free and "secure": i always prefer to have solid cover behind my back. On my
right there was a circle of three people staring at a small flat screen hanging
on the wall. Two of them were also gripping some controllers and clicking on
buttons. Apparently they were playing some old-school game. I stared at the
screen for a while, trying to understand what it was about, but then my
attention was grabbed by the shoulder.

It was that same girl from before; apparently she took an interest in me or
something. I still didn't know her name, so i opened my mouth to ask, but she
spoke first.

— So, how are you enjoying the party?

The question startled me a bit, since i was lying asleep in the next room just a
few minutes ago. But then i realized she might have been partying too hard to
notice.

— I'm just warming up, you know. But it's kind of nostalgic. I haven't been at a
party ever since i left college.

— Mmm, i suppose you're not a party-goer type. May i guess what brings you here
then?

— Eh, sure, go ahead.

She tilted her head a bit, a gesture that looked well-rehearsed. I should admit
it still looked pretty damn cool.

— You're looking for someone, aren't ya? — she spoke in a such way that i could
not possibly guess what she was implying, if she even did imply anything.

— Maybe, — i tried to play along for a while and said that with a hint of smile.

It was too early to jump to conclusions. That girl could have been a spy, an
unexpected ally, an overly nosy observer. Or she could have been flirting with
me without any back thoughts.

— Incidentally, i didn't quite catch your name, — i decided i should take
initiative to have some time to consider further actions.

— Ah, i'm terribly sorry. I'm Sasha. Sasha Ginzburg, freelance journalist and
fanfic writer, — she laughed nervously — I didn't mean to sound so formal
though. It's just my habit to introduce myself like that when talking in
english.

— Isabella Norton, pleased to meet you, — i said in a satirically formal tone
and made a joking bow, — At the moment i'm an unemployed traveller, spending my
severance pay.

I could see some confusion on her face and thought for a moment that she might
have not understand the term i used, but then she smiled understandingly. We
looked at each other for a few more moments before bursting into laughter.

    ***

A person in a bright masquerade costume sat alone on an expensive-looking sofa.
"Is it a man or a woman?" was the question that many asked themselves seeing
that person, but nobody ever dared to ask aloud. Presently, there was nobody
else in the room, yet the person started to talk in a sweet androgynous voice:

— It is my pleasure to have appeared here, after travelling through many places
and pages, yet my stay won't be long for other matters are waiting for my
attention.

And then, in a puff of smoke, the person seemed to disappear.

    ***

There was a strange moment of silence and i became acutely aware of the tension
that have been accumulating in the "gamers' club" for a while now. Finally it
bursted out with a muted explosion sound, followed by exasperated exclamation.
Apparently those two finally lost their game. They got up, stretching their
limbs, and went off, cursing loudly.

The third guy, who i dubbed "observer" (since he wasn't playing), continued to
stare at the screen for a few dozen seconds and then looked at the room
expectantly. When his gaze met mine, he stopped and said in a hopeful voice:

— Хочешь сыграть?

I could guess he was asking me something, but there wasn't enough context to
understand the subject of the question. His face started to look puzzled when i
failed to reply or give any sign of understanding.

— He asks whether you want to play, — Sasha translated, rescuing both of us, —
We could play together, if you'd like.

— Ah, yes, you both welcome, — replied the "observer", apparently feeling
flustered by the situation.

I was a bit confused myself, for i was too engaged in my paranoid thoughts to be
expecting so sudden intrusion.

— Come on, lets do it, — noticing my indecisiveness, Sasha pulled me along and i
found myself in front of the big pulsating label "Play Again?.." placed on a
static explosion background.

— Huh, so you're into this stuff too? — i asked her after failing to come up
with anything better to say.

— What are you talking about? Everybody is into this stuff these days! It's
fucking S.T.U.F.F. — she literally pronounced it letter-by-letter and i was
unsure whether that was to indicate significance of the word or actually a
proper name, — And don't worry if you don't understand something: i'll be right
here to help.

— But before you start, — the "observer" added, — i explain you couple things.
First of all, i am master of game, Orpheus. Second: if you win, you get *prize*.

Self-proclaimed master Orpheus made an especial emphasis on the word "prize",
implying some significance. Perhaps it was meant to encourage me being
competitive, but i had no plans of immersing myself too much and losing my
vigilance.

Nevertheless, i picked up controller and prepared for an unknown battle.

    ***

It moved slowly and almost peacefully, but it never averted its gaze from its
prey. It tried to appear big and fluffy, but to no avail. The prey, the
observers and even the tiny drop of water could clearly see its evil nature.

    ***

"Booom" — the car crashed in front of me, dealing massive damage. I ran further
down the street, trying to get away from all the explosive stuff that seemed to
be so attracted to me.

— Bella, on your right!

At this point i already had no idea where did this voice come or whose voice it
was, but i instantly dodged and turned back, ready to shoot. When i saw what was
coming though, i ended up doing a couple more rollbacks before finally enjoying
the sight of another explosion. This time it was a fucking helicopter falling
onto the street. I started wondering how long it would take for this to escalate
into a nuclear shoot-out between starship squadrons.

But then a few moments later i was back in game, trying to find a peaceful place
to heal. I ended up crashing through the windows into some fashion store and had
to kill all the security guards who supposedly continued to protect the store,
never-minding apocalypse happening on the streets. After the last guard dropped
dead, i picked up first-aid box and started pondering on situation at hand.

"What am i doing in this war-torn city? Who am i fighting? Who am i running away
from?" — i thought while bandaging my blood-covered limbs. Then a warning voice
returned me into battle state:

— We can't be staying here much longer. Sniper squad has already been deployed,
they'll hunt us down quickly.

— Where do we go then?

— The basement.

I threw away the remaining bandages and went running after Sasha, who was
already approaching a small door with "Staff only" sign on it. Luckily for us,
the door was open and there was nobody inside. We ran throw the maze of
corridors that finally led us to a badly lit stairwell. I was amazed at how
easily Sasha was choosing the right path as if she was familiar with the place.

Our steps made hollow reverberated sounds as we ran down the stairs. For a while
it was the only noise to be heard, save for our panting and heartbeat. But then
another sound joined in: it was the alarm sirens, going off on a few different
floors at the same time.

"Why?" — meanwhile, i continued to ponder, — "Why should i run through these
wailing sounds, through the blood of my enemies and innocent by-standers,
through the never-ending screams and curses?"

I couldn't name a single reason, yet i continued running further down, continued
shooting back at hordes of faceless black jacket men who were attacking us in
waves coming from one floor or another.

Finally, after a seemingly endless descending, we came to a stop on the bottom
floor.

    ***

There was a tiny spot of dirt on the window. An old butler tried to wipe it out,
but failed. A young maid tried to wipe it, but failed. So the tiny spot of dirt
remained on the window.

    ***

As we entered the bottom basement floor proper and the door behind shut, i found
myself disoriented by the darkness. For a few seconds i realized i'm literally
staring at a black screen, but then my vision adopted and i could discern
silhouettes of surroundings. We were in a big — if not huge — room, mostly
empty, except for some weird-looking structure in the middle. It was also
surprisingly silent: no sirens, no gunshots, no running steps.

As if to preserve that silence, we didn't speak and walked slowly forward. It
was hard to judge distance in the darkness, especially after that crazy run
through the stairs, so it took us more than i expected to get to that structure.

When we finally approached it, i realized it was a sculpture of a kind. But it
was still too dark to see it clearly and after stumbling in buttons for a few
seconds i turned on my flashlight.

It was a weird sculpture alright. A few tentacles rose from a simple pedestal;
atop them were several bodies, — i couldn't even count them properly for they
were interconnected with each other, — concluded with one double-faced head. The
face looking at the entrance had a cunning smile and sad eyes, but i could only
see a single eye of the second face. At least five hands were advancing from it:
one was holding a coffee cup, another was forming a fist, yet another was barely
gripping a double-edged sword.

I moved around the sculpture to see the rest of it, but no matter how much steps
i made i couldn't see more than a corner of an eye of its second face. It took
me a half of a circle to realize the statue was following me. When i did, i
immediately did a double-roll to the right, expecting laser beams or something.

But the stone creature merely followed me with its gaze and gave no other signs
of being alive or otherwise active.

— What's up with that piece of stone?! — i almost cried for i was pretty
disturbed by its behaviour.

— I'm trying to figure out that myself, — Sasha replied after a few daunting
seconds of silence. She spoke in an oddly calm voice, which only made me feel
even more anxious.

Meanwhile, as i was standing still, nothing changed. I looked around and saw
Sasha a dozen meters form, looking at the sculpture intently. Other then her and
the statue, the room was still empty, yet something deep inside was telling me
that something was wrong. Not even the statue, something else.

I made a three-sixty degree turn around, trying to pierce the darkness before
the creatures lurking there would disappear. But there were no creatures, there
was nothing to be afraid of. The only thing that i was truly afraid now was that
i found myself in this big dark room with a weird stone structure in its center
and only one supposed ally and a semi-automatic in my hand.
