Chapter Seventh
---------------

I cannot quite understand whether it was my indecisiveness or slow reaction that
led to those events. As soon as i fully understood what was happening, it was
already too late to break and i let Sasha enjoy the kissing. I didn't feel much
myself: perhaps i wasn't really interested in her in that way, or maybe i just
wasn't in the mood, or maybe i was just too busy being careful and alert.

Finally, i got tired and broke away the kiss. For a few moments we were looking
into each other's eyes. For some reason all i could notice was the hue of her
iris. It wasn't regular "blue" which should really be called "bluish grey". Her
eyes were of genuine blue color, with a hint of green around the pupils, so big
in the darkness.

Then the winter wind blew hard into my face, messing up my hair and blocking the
view. Having broken our gaze, i turned away, trying to think about situation at
hand. But i was much too shocked to actually process everything that happened
and in the end all my thoughts concentrated on Sasha, kissing and my feelings.

— Sorry, — she whispered after a while, her voice giving away doubt, — you
didn't like it?

I had no idea what to say and only let out a sigh.

— Well, i suppose i'm not good enough. That's only to be expected.. — she wanted
to continue, but suddenly a melody started to play, which was soon revealed to
be her ring tone.

Sasha hung up furiously, almost ready to throw smartphone onto the ground. She
put it back into her pocket instead, but still couldn't continue whatever she
wanted to say. A new sound caught our attention, now coming from inside the
building: someone's footsteps were approaching the door. Then the door opened
and a guy from the party appeared.

At first i thought he would say we should go back inside or something, but he
offered me his phone instead.

— Isabella? — he asked to confirm my identity, — there's a man who wants to talk
to you urgently.

His voice sounded surprised and even more so disturbed. Reluctantly, i took the
phone from his hand.

    ***

Something crashed into the ground.

    ***

— Be careful, mind the weather, for you request is fulfilled, — said the
familiar voice in the same familiarly tired tone.

— Blue? — i asked mechanically, too surprised to react properly on the meaning
of his words.

— So i am indeed. Meet me at the station at the dawn, — he said that and hung
up. For a few seconds i listened for the short beeps and then returned phone to
its owner. He was visibly displeased by the fact that he had to walk through the
house just for me to say one word, but then walked off silently.

I stood looking at the night scenery for a while. It was a small dying town, the
streets were engulfed in darkness, which could not be unraveled by a few dim and
flickering street lights. It felt unreal and distant to me; almost as if the
train took me to another dimension or, perhaps, someone's dream.

— Change of plans? — Sasha asked, returning me to reality of the moment.

— Change of plans, indeed, — i repeated after her, trying hard to stay in
reality.

Suddenly i noticed i was getting cold and added:

— Lets discuss that inside though, shall we?

After being so long out in the cold, it felt pleasantly warm, but also somewhat
stuffy inside. We quickly walked through the corridor, which i haven't really
noticed before and then up the steep wooden stairs.

— So you're leaving? — only after we walked through the main room, still full of
partying people, into the small room where i woke up, did Sasha ask.

— Apparently, i am. It's a pity i couldn't stay longer at the party, but i
suppose i have to starting moving now, — in a matter of fact, i didn't have a
slightest idea about how long would it take to get to the station. Or what hour
it was. Or at what hour would the dawn emerge, either.

— And did you even consider how are you going to "start moving"? — she asked
with a hint of sarcasm. She hit me right in my weak spot and perhaps for that
reason i couldn't leave her line unanswered.

— Are you about to suggest something or just laughing at me? — i said, having
finished collecting the few things i left in there.

— Mmm, how can i be just laughing at you? Imagining you all alone walking in
this winter night in this town is no laughing matter. Of course i have a
suggestion.

— And?

— Oh, it's pretty simple: i go with you. And, we take a car.

As she mentioned that, i remembered our path from the station here and the
stolen car we drove on. At that time i wasn't in an appropriate state of mind to
seriously think about this action, but now it seemed pretty crazy to me.

Then i realized how nice was Sasha's suggestion, even if it also implied a
stolen car. In fact, it felt weird that she would suggest driving an almost
stranger in the night. I started on my paranoid thoughts again, but then decided
it won't help me in this situation.

— It is really nice of you. But, i've got one question in that regard, if you
don't mind. Why did you guys have to steal that car yesterday? And are you going
to do it again?

— Hey, that's two questions! — Sasha replied, meanwhile gesturing me to suggest
we should leave, — But anyway, you shouldn't be that worried about it. It would
take much longer for anybody to find out than we're going to stay here.

    ***

"Of all minor demons everyone should have their favourite", a distorted voice
said through the radio noise in a brightly sunlit room, filled with old
furniture, "for someone who doesn't will have to deal with greater demons. And i
can say from experience that it is painful".

Voice paused and only static could be heard for a while. Then something clicked
and the voice started again: "Of all minor demons everyone..."

    ***

As we walked back through the party room, i remained silent. The atmosphere was
mostly the same as before, except for increased number of people who started to
doze off. I looked at the gamers' corner and sure enough there was another match
in progress. As if feeling my glance, Orpheus turned around and, noticing me,
waived and started to stand up. He almost tripped over several times, before
finally catching up with us near the stairs.

— Эй, Саша! Вы что, уже валите? — Orpheus patted Sasha's shoulder.

— Да, похоже мои планы изменились. Передавай мои извинения, — Sasha glanced back
at the room.

— Ну что же, успехов тебе и твоей подруге.

— Спасибо.

I started to go downstairs to avoid listening conversation i couldn't (and,
perhaps, wasn't supposed to) understand, but then they switch to english.

— So, since you leaving before competition over, — Orpheus said in a louder
voice, — i can't say how high you rank. But since i enjoyed your performance,
want to give you at least some prize.

— How nice of you, — Sasha replied, — but you don't have to go that far.

I remained silent for i had little idea of what would be considered polite in
this situation.

— No worry. Just wait a second, — with this Orpheus moved through another door,
which happened to lead to a tiny unlit storeroom. Apparently he didn't need
light to find whatever he wanted to find, though, for he emerged out of it quite
quickly.

— Here, take this, — for some reason he approached me and started talking in a
dramatic low voice, — i don't know what your quest is, or whether you have a
quest, but i hope this could be of assistance.

Having finished his line, he gave me a small package, wrapped in brown paper. As
usual in such situations, my paranoia got activated and almost made me refuse
offer. But i supposed the risk is worth taking and reluctantly took the package.

— Thank you very much, — i said after a short pause.

— Yeah, thanks, — Sasha added, her voice giggling.

— Ha-ha, you welcome. I won't put me in your way any longer, — replied Orpheus
and moved back to the party room, — Good bye.

— Yeah, see ya later, — Sasha turned to me indicating we should go.

— Bye, Orpheus, — i concluded and finally continued descending.
