Chapter Ninth
-------------

Lambda is the alpha,
And tau is twice pi,
And gamma rays, happy gamma rays
Penetrated all over me.

    ***

— So what was that spectacle with the present about? — i asked Sasha who was
starting the car.

— Ah, that? Remember i said i'm a fanfic writer? Well, i don't only write
text-only stories, i've been participating in a few indie game circles, — Sasha
finally fired up the engine and inspected me, — All set? Then forward we go!

Our old sedan started unexpectedly sharp, forcing me into the back of my seat.

— So, as i was saying, i was involved with making a few small scale games. One
of them we were making with Orpheus. Actually, it was he who introduced me to
gaming and gamedev in the first place.

After bouncing on a few holes, the car finally broke onto a relatively good
road. It was still bumpy and i could imagine i would have felt dizzy if my
vestibular system wouldn't have improved since my youth.

— And that first game we were making was pretty much sheer parody. So, that
phrase Orpheus said was one of the lines by an early NPC. I was really quite
surprised he still remembers it that well. But then again, he spent a lot of
time rehearsing it.

Sasha abruptly stopped talking to take care of a sudden problem on the road. At
the moment we were driving through the relatively small forest belt separating
the town into "old" and "new" parts as i learned from map some time later. And
on this narrow forest road there was a car abandoned perpendicularly, that we
had to bypass on the opposite line.

— Huh, so that's how it is, — i finally replied to her explanation after we
ended that maneuver.

— Yeah. Honestly, i have no idea why am i even telling you this. It would
probably have been better preserved as inner joke.

Our conversation died at that and next five or so minutes we drove in silence.

    ***

Spectacle of spectacles was truly spectacular. It could have won any possible
award humanity could create. It could have changed human destiny forever.

It could have, but nobody watched it. Nobody. Ever.

    ***

Watching winter dawn from the pedestrian bridge over railway station wasn't
something i had been doing very often. As a matter of fact, that day it was the
first time i did so. The picture was pretty impressive.

It wasn't the stereotypical "first sun rays emerged from the red horizon and lit
the surroundings" or whatever is usually said about such occasions. In fact, we
did not see neither sun nor its rays at all: the eastern sky was filled with
clouds.

Still, those clouds weren't too thick and the change from dark grey to yellowish
grey to pink to bright yellow was beautiful. And yet another thing was the
ghost-looking town awakening. Old multi-storey apartment buildings first looked
like simple black shadows, with only few lit windows. Then they started to turn
grey, light in windows flipping on and off. And as they turned grey, their true
state started to show.

I wouldn't have been surprised if i would be told that town had been hit by war.
Buildings were visibly disintegrating, some apparently abandoned, with empty
windowless frames; some still inhabited, despite half of the roof being
collapsed. But as far as i knew, there had been no war in these parts for quite
some time.

Then, the cars. Of those few we could see, all were either old or covered in a
brown dirt, or both. Some were just empty car skeletons. I imagined most of them
will turn into car-shaped snow mountains later in the winter.

Then, there were trees. Dead-looking, weirdly shaped trees, which Sasha
described as "our mutant trees".

This may sound depressive, but to me the whole picture, especially in its
dynamic, was beautiful. Perhaps, it was a certain harmony between ever-changing
ever-lasting sky and slowly dying human dwelling. Perhaps it was my deeply
hidden hatred towards all human. It doesn't really matter.

— Train's coming, — said Sasha returning me back to reality.

I refrained from a bad pun and instead gazed into direction she pointed at.
There was a train there alright. Or at least something that looked and sounded
like a train. But compared to modern train we rode in a day before, this was a
relic of the past. Even from that distance i could see its weird angled shapes,
its old pantographs, its driver seats.

Slowly we started descending to the platform. We had no need to haste for the
train wasn't in a hurry either.

Only when it arrived did i realize that Sasha was still with me despite my
supposedly secret meeting with Blue. I looked at her. She stared back.

— There's no need to worry about such details, — she said, as if answering to my
unspoken thoughts.

    ***

Dark static was spreading through the veins of the city. Someone's terror was
feeling its lungs. Soon there will be no more.

    ***

Only one person left the train on the platform and for a moment i thought that
maybe the whole train was riding only to get him here. Of course, it was Blue;
of course, he was still wearing black leather. And apparently he was neither
surprised nor alarmed to see me in a company.

While he was walking towards us, the train left the station.

— Morning, ladies, — Blue said, still hopelessly trying to sound british.

— Hello, Синий, — Sasha answered first. Her voice betrayed mix of excitement and
confidence in her superiority.

I mumbled something for a greeting.

— The job is done, the pay is due, — he then cut straight to business,
never-minding Sasha's present.

— But of course, — i replied. And then, after a pause, added, — What were his
words?

— Didn't say nothing dramatic. Asked me to return a rooster that he owed to a
neighbour.

— So that's how it was, huh?.. Did you return the rooster?

— Oh yeah, i did. Had a few troubles with that damn bird.

I put right hand into the inner pocket of my jacket and after a bit of search
took a piece of paper out of it that looked like an old school shop cheque.

— "????", — i said, — original edition, of course.

Blue took the paper and inspected it curiously.

— Interesting way of doing business you have indeed, — he said, pocketing the
precious thing, — Do you always use such rare ones?

— At the very least i use those whose authors had been dead for at least seventy
years.

— The rumors about your humor were certainly unexaggerated.

All the while Sasha stood silently, few steps away from us.

— So are you two acquainted or what? — i finally asked question that had been
bothering me for a while.

— Hmm, how should i put it?.. — Blue considered this a bit and finally added, —
Everybody knows Sasha in these parts. And as much as i don't like trusting
famous people, i have no doubts about her.

— And, — Sasha added, — despite Синий is not as famous as me, i'm well informed
enough to know him.

And so the pieces of the puzzle started to fall in place.

    ***

There was a knock on the door, then two more. Then, nothing.

Five minutes later air conditioner turned on, relieving the room from various
scents which were the last evidence of events which perhaps never happened.
