Глава десятая
-------------

— Hey, you speak english, right? — так обратилась ко мне Кирихара-сан в первый
день нашего знакомства — Нихон го ва моо акьта.

Мы шли по ночному городу после первого совещания. Голова шла кругом после
долгого дня: ещё утром я садился в самолёт во Владивостоке, а уже с полудня
началось общее собрание в центре Токио.

— Нани? Oh yeah, sure. I don't have much spoken experience though.

— Well, it's fine as long as we understand each other. This day sure was tiring.
Кьсо, even though i've been here for a week, i spent all of it sitting in my
room like some hikkikomori and haven't adopted at all. Too much нихонго at the
meeting almost made my head hurt.

— Ha-ha, i can understand you. I might be used to watching anime, but being
immersed into actual japanese society is a different thing.

Какое-то время мы шли молча. Наконец, чтобы развеять несколько хмурую
атмосферу, я произнёс:

— Джя, ищщёни гамбаримас ка?

— О! Гамбаро! — в тон мне ответила Кирихара и мы оба засмеялись.

— By the way, i don't think i've remembered your first name at the meeting.
Everybody uses last names all the time.. Oh, and i'm Jane, by the way.

— I'm Алексей, or simply Лёша.

— Ok, ёрощку нэ, Лёша.

— Ёрощку, Jane.

Мы опять рассмеялись. За разговором мы не заметили как отстали от группы и
затерялись в толпе.

— Well, looks like we got lost or something, — наконец заметил я.

— Really? — похоже, она несколько удивилась этому, но не приняла всерьёз, — Oh,
i believe that won't be a problem. Нээ-сан ва аннаищмас агеру кара, — она
добавила совсем уж шутливым голосом.

— Мадьжи? — я попытался ответить ей в тон.

— But of course. We'll be living in one neighbourhood. You didn't know?

— Ah, they probably said something like that, but it could have easily slipped
past me.

— Вакару, вакару. Джя, i suppose we can enjoy ourselves then and leave the
others to themselves. That said, i've no idea how high-schoolers like to spent
their time these days.

— Don't ask me, i'm not an expert of shounen psychology.

— Hmm... Джя, what would you like to do? Well, we can actually return home since
it's getting pretty late. Дэмо, сэккаку киттанони, моттайнай дэс.

"Что бы я хотел, да? Нечасто мне задают подобные вопросы", подумал я.

— Well, if you ask me, i always wanted to go into a bar, but there's not much
point in it without drinking, is there?

— Huh, do you want to become adult that badly?

— It's not really about being adult. It's just that i always акогарета that
atmosphere. "Double whiskey, straight" and then you sit there at the bar and
think your depressive thoughts. And maybe someone notices you and asks what's
wrong or something. Now that i think about it, it sounds like a stupid childish
dream.

— Hmm, i suppose i've never thought about it like that. My father was a heavy
drinker back when i was a kid and seeing him made me hate alcohol. Of course,
when i grew up, i stopped actually hating it. But there was no romantic aureole
around it for me.

Мы продолжали идти по ночной улице. Навстречу нам попадались в основном пьяные
компании и влюблённые парочки. Со стороны мы наверное выглядели как парочка
гайджинов и до некоторой степени именно так себя и ощущали.

Дойдя до очередного перекрёстка, мы остановились.
