Chapter Thirteenth
------------------

While nobody was looking, the bottle silently disappeared into the void.

    ***

In response to Sasha's knocking, the door creaked violently and opened. The old
man was shining with a smile.

— Саша, как же я давно тебя не видел! — he hugged her almost violently, ignoring
me for the time being.

— Здравствуй, дядь Вань. Ну не души же меня так, — Sasha's voice sounded like
she was prepared for this.

I stood still for a while, mindlessly inspecting the pair on a peculiar
background: badly lit cabin that looked like retired freight train car. That
was, on one hand, natural since it was a railway facility anyway. But on the
other hand, it was a stark contrast to the shiny skyscrapers of railway monopoly
i've seen the day before.

— Ладно, давайте я вас всё же познакомлю, — Sasha said addressing both of us, —
Lets get acquainted.

Even though she wanted to make us acquainted, she didn't bother to mention who
i was. And it's not like i could give a satisfactory explanation myself.

— Bella, — i extended my hand. The old man looked at it hesitantly for a few
seconds, but then finally understood the gesture and chuckled.

— Иван, — he said, gently shaking my hand, — ну, проходите внутрь, не стойте на
пороге.

He made inviting gesture and went inside. We followed. When Sasha closed the
door, i felt a bit claustrophobic for it became very dark compared to the
outside. But then Ivan opened the curtains and the light level became
comfortable.

— Ну что, проходите, проходите, чай уже горячий, правда у меня одни галеты, —
Ivan spoke somewhat fussily, — Сладкого-то ничего нету. Ну, ты же знаешь, я
сам-то не люблю, а гостей и не бывает почти.

— Дядь Вань, да ты не волнуйся. Мы уж перекусили.

— Ну как же, угостить-то надо чем-нибудь.

Finally we all settled around an improvised table, which consisted of a stool
and an almost square piece of plywood on top of it. Ivan seated us on an old
couch and sat on a small chair opposite to us.

He poured us some black tea into small peculiarly-looking ceramic cups. I took
mine to my eye and inspected it closely. The bright painting on it, which at
first i thought to be a pure abstraction, depicted two faces, looking in
opposite directions. The background contained a blue sky, some city-like
structure and a forest.

— Бэлла, шпрэхен зи дойч? — suddenly Ivan addressed me in a language that
definitely didn't sound russian, despite all the accent.

"German?", i thought, but the accent was too bad to be sure.

— Nein, nein, — i answered just in case.

— Дядь Вань, ну я же говорила тебе, что она только по-английски говорит. Да ты
же и сам всё равно немецкого не знаешь! — interrupted Sasha, — Please, don't
mind him. As long as i knew him, he always liked to put that phrase in every
conversation, even though he doesn't speak german.

— Ну вот, Саша. Теперь ты про меня сплетни разводишь, а я-то даже и не пойму ни
слова! И не жалко тебе старика?

    ***

When the voice finally got tired of repeating, only static remained. Still,
there was nobody to turn off the radio and it continued working. Perhaps,
forever, as if it was working on nuclear energy or something.

    ***

Having finished our tea, we remained sitting in silence for a while. I could
feel some tension and it wasn't hard to guess that it was my presence that
caused it.  But what could i do about it? It's not like i had anywhere to go,
especially now that i finally started to feel terribly sleepy.

— Should we smoke some weed, perhaps? — suggested Sasha, apparently feeling the
same tenseness in the air.

I could only wonder how often does she solve uneasy situation with weed. "Isn't
it supposed to be solved with vodka in these parts?", a thought occurred to me,
even though i couldn't take it seriously. Obviously, even correct statistical
claims have nothing to do with individuals.

— Ha-ha, i'm not sure it's such a good idea after this night's trip.

— Really? I thought it was pretty hilarious, — she giggled, — but hey, we can
take lighter stuff, if you prefer.

— Are you a secret drug dealer or something?

— Eh, not really. It's not worth my time to sell stuff. But i've always got
enough for me and my friends. So, how about it?

— Well, if you insist. You'll have to deal with consequences if i drop asleep,
though.

— Don't worry, i've got experience, — she smiled almost innocently, but i felt a
barely noticeable chill run through my spine.

— Well, i suppose i don't mind a joint then, — i replied reluctantly after a
small pause.

I was increasingly feeling that somehow i lost a huge deal of control of my life
ever since i've entered that train that brought me here. Maybe that was the
reason why i felt similarity between this place and the town i once escaped
from?

But probably not. This time lack of control didn't feel as bad. It was, in a
way, me voluntarily resigning part of myself to experience life from another
perspective.

While i was thinking that, Sasha exchanged a few words with Ivan, who apparently
was a big fan of weed as well. Which made me wondering whether it was him who
introduced her to this habit.

— All ready, — declared Sasha triumphantly and lit the joint, — Let's take a
puff for our acquaintance! За знакомство!

She inhaled and passed the cigarette to me. I followed the suit and passed it on
to Ivan.

    ***

Dark clouds hung over the city. At first, nobody noticed them. But they were
still hanging the next day. And the next one. And finally everyone came to
understanding that they became a part of the city and will never go away.

    ***

— So, now that we're in a warm place and have slept away, will you finally tell
me your secrets? — a sweet voice whispered in my ear.

— What are you talking about? — i could barely mumble this in response.

I really wasn't feeling like talking or even accepting reality at all. I didn't
notice when did it happen, but i was in a state of peculiarly pleasant void.

— Your secrets, my darling, — now the voice was coming from my other ear.

For a second i got confused and wanted to count my ears to make sure they are
all still in place. Then i remembered i'm only supposed to have two.

— They both are in place, — i mumbled again, just to answer something and get
rid from this mysterious interrogator.

— Aww, you're helpless. Well, tell me at least, what do you see? — now the voice
was coming from literally nowhere, for all my ears were already used.

— I see a room. Empty room, — i glanced into the darkness yet again, but was too
afraid that it may look back at me and returned, — It's too dark.

Somebody exhaled as if expressing disappointment.

— Ладно, ладно, enjoy your dreams. I've got some writing to do anyway.

Before i returned to my comfortable void, i could hear a keyboard tapping,
appearing in fast bursts.

    ***

"What is the point of the rain?", a godless entity pondered.

"Why do i want the rain to have a point?", it thought on second day.

"How should i measure the rain-ness of the point?", it still was thinking the
same rain-vs-point problem on the third day.
