Chapter Fifteenth
-----------------

When i woke up, i found myself still in the same cabin, but the curtains were
already closed and the light was turned on. Somewhere in the distance, Sasha and
Ivan were discussing something in low voices. I stretched my body and got up.

— And why are you waking up at such time of day, Izzy? — i mumbled to myself.

Me had no chance to answer though.

— Hey, Bella? Did you get up? — asked Sasha, noticing my awakening.

Suddenly, a hazy memory came back to me, but only for a brief moment.

— Oh yeah, it seems that i made this mistake, — i answered, yawning.

— Well, we wouldn't mind if you'd stay there for an hour or two more.

— Maybe you wouldn't, but i've got things to do.

— Ah yeah, your business. Maybe it's finally time to talk about it?

— Maybe, maybe. Perhaps we should start with the local news though.

— News, huh? Does it have anything to do with Blue?

— Oh yeah. I'm wondering if it already hit the news.

— Okay, let me see...

Sasha turned to a laptop sitting on her knees and started typing. Tap-tap...
Tap-tap.. Sounds of keyboard reminded me of something, but then Sasha
interrupted.

— Hmm, Andrey Portnov.. was found strangled to death in a hotel number, that's
it?

For some reason these words that were but a translation of some news article
finally made me realize that my vengeance was really over. I took a deep breath
and calmed myself.

— They sure are fast. I'd think they wouldn't announce it today.

— Well, they haven't, yet. I'm just reading insider news channel. I'm a
journalist, in the end.

— Ah yeah.. Information leaks, — i paused, — So, now you know. I contracted Blue
to kill that guy. But before i continue i need another cup of tea.

    ***

Something drips... and drips... and keeps dripping. Shadows fall.

And then!..

    ***

— So then, — i sipped strong black tea and continued, — you must be wondering
who this Andrey Portnov is. Well, as you might have seen, he's currently a
senator or something. But how do i happen to know a senator in these parts? Or
maybe you think i'm just a proxy contractor?

— You might be, for all i know. But i suppose you'd be more secretive in that
case.

— Yeah, i suppose so. I don't even know why am i so carefree lately, — that is
what i said, but i already had a more or less correct understanding of that. I
accomplished my goal and, on one hand, had no need to be careful anymore; on the
other, i wanted to celebrate, to relax.

— Anyway, i suppose you can look up the guy's biography, — i continued, — He
claims to be russian immigrant descendant. And i suppose that might be true.
Back in the day when i knew him, he called himself Andrew Portnau. He wasn't
very eager to discuss his ancestors to say the least.

I took a few more sips of tea, making a pause to hide my emotions towards my
freshly dead enemy.

— He always strove for power, but i noticed that way too late. When he had come
to our squadron, we all thought he was one of those flying fans. He acted like
one anyway. Had a big collection of assorted copter and jet figurines, was
boasting some prestigious pilot sims awards. Typical otaku who had the guts to
go irl, that's what we thought of him.

— It probably sounds banal, but we all had meals together, fought together...
Nobody would think he would be a traitor. But then can you call someone who was
never really on your side a traitor? He worked for Agency from the day zero, as
he later admitted.

Dark memories flooded my brain, almost making me want to vomit. But i've never
had the ability to actually physically vomit from psychological trauma.

— I'd thought i'd be able to talk about him now, after all these years, — i said
with bitter irony, — but apparently those memories never fade. Let me be brief
then. Portnau sold our squadron to the Agency, sending us onto a suicide
mission; he didn't expect anyone to return.

    ***

"I created this monster. I wanted it to be strong. I have no reasons to blame
anybody, but myself."

Having said that, the monster fighter started their last, unequal, hopeless
fight.

    ***

After finishing my story, i leaned back; a bad feeling in my mouth reminded me
of an even earlier memory: my first cigarette in the school backyard. I laughed
at the thought that the shy girl trying to look cool and then afraid of coughing
out her lungs was also me. Or perhaps just imagined laughing, for i didn't
actually hear the sound.

It was only then that i noticed that Ivan has silently disappeared. It must have
been boring to listen to foreign speech indeed. Sasha seemed to be fascinated by
the story, though she said nothing and i couldn't be sure about her reaction.

Sounds of slow freight train that had been crawling around for a while suddenly
caught my attention. I wondered what will happen if i walk away and sit on one
of its flatcars. Then i tried to stop thinking my depressive thoughts and, after
a few more seconds of hesitation, got up.
