Chapter Twenty First
--------------------

— My sit! My sit is taken! I demand a refund! — in the dark park alley, lit only
by sparse blinking street lights, a person in a hood screamed silently. Fifty
meters after, the complete refund was lying on the path, but it was still too
dark for anybody to see it.

    ***

Does racing old cars on winter road in the middle of night counts as extreme
sports or as extravagant suicide method? Perhaps, a bit of both. It is also not
very safe for late bystanders and stray cars on steep turns. A small memorial
with cross and undead flowers — a very material, if not living, proof of these
dangers, — was highlighted by headlights of our speeding sedan for a few moments
before disappearing back into eternal darkness.

— Here lies the last mayor of that wrecked town, — Sasha commented in a
surprisingly calm voice, — Or whatever left of his remains, anyway.

Barely managing to handle ancient controls of quickly moving vehicle, i barely
registered meaning of her words and had no time to reply. Few seconds later, our
car jumped up on a road bump, and the remnants of the lingering question "why"
in my head had disappeared altogether.

But Sasha continued nevertheless.

— He didn't *really* die in the car accident though. Well, his body did,
but.. they killed off about ninety-nine percents of his mind two hours before
that happened.

Sharp screeching of tires forced her to pause. I did a maneuver precise enough
to be proud of, but we had no time for such feelings. Our competitors, only a few
moments ago lost beyond a road turn, were quickly catching up.

— Funnily enough, those rats who did it are already dead. They all fought for
power, but when the shit had finally hit the fan, even the rat king fell by the
hand of his bodyguard...

I was getting a bit annoyed by Sasha's nonchalant attitude towards the more
immediate dangers i was fighting. I wondered whether she is used to such kind of
situations or simply have no fears. But yet again, i was much to busy driving to
bring myself to reply anything.

— For all the blood they spilled and bled though, it was an interesting time to
be a journalist. Current dynamic equilibrium isn't as fun to watch. Maybe i
should just drop the whole politics theme and join the glorious lines of tech
adventurers?

There seemed to be no end to this dark road filled with deathly turns and
bumps. I started getting tired of steering mechanical wheel and a bit worried
that we might not live through this night. On a relatively easy part of the
road, i finally brought myself to stop Sasha's rambling:

— So, how much more is left till the city? — i wanted to also complain about our
car lacking navigator, but then remembered it wasn't Sasha's one anyway.

— Lemme see. There's going to be an abandoned gas station after a couple turns
and then it's a straight line of five kilometers. But the Predators will not go
all the way; you need to hang on just a bit after that station.

— If you knew that much, why even go onto this fucked up road? — i could no
longer hide my irritation.

— Well, it's not like there were viable alternatives. I'm not a big fan of
roundabout ways. Besides, i trusted you could put this bad parody of racers to
shame.

— So you did plan it all along, — i sighted.

— I took all the risks into account, that's all.

Another sharp turn shook our car, forcing both of us to shut up for a while.

    ***

Endless stream of small details across unlimited canvas. Infinite attempts to
put them into limited order. Just as much tries to get uncaged experience out of
it.

All of this burned with approximately same amount of heat.

    ***

Despite i've been used to hi-tech control systems more similar to old-school
racing game controls than to this twentieth century anachronism, my driver
instincts still couldn't be matched by some third-grade dilettantes of violent
racing. But no matter how good you are, in this world there are physical
limitations unovercomeable by mere mortals.

What Sasha didn't account for was the risk of getting outright rammed into by
simply more powerful car with nitrogen boosters. Even if i could secure us a win
in an honest race, there was nothing to do against this brute force. The only
chance to get away we had was to make Predators crash before that gasoline
station, when they were still playing competitive.

But we had missed that chance. When the score was clear enough to understand
their loss, they simply crashed into our car, sending already speeding sedan
forward and then, attacking it from left, into the side of the road.

I don't know whether this was pure luck or remains of my driving skills which
saved us in the end. Our car scratched over a birch tree, losing a slice of its
head along with the left door, and slowing down just enough to not kill us on
the next impact into an old oak.

Meanwhile, predators pulled the brakes and smashed into another tree. Even if
they could just go forward, slow down and return to catch us, they weren't
cool-headed enough to do that. Like classical adrenaline junkies, they were
willing to put lives on the line, both others' and their own. And as if that
wasn't enough, their driver also indulged in substance abuse most of the time
outside of vehicle.

But i've only inferred such details some time later. Right after the crash, i
was sitting shocked, my head pushed into an emergency pillow and my head filled
with thoughts of terror and relief at the same time.

Of all four of us, Sasha was the first to move. After looking at my sorrow, but
alive state, she kicked the right door open and crawled outside with a weak
smile on her face.

— Looks like we're gonna need to borrow another car, — she said after looking
critically at the wreck that we've just been riding on.

    ***



    ***

To say that i wasn't used to extreme situations would of course be a lie, but i
still remember the acute feeling of extreme annoyance at the occasion, only
slightly diluted by fear. When immediate pressure of having to steer vehicle was
over, my anger finally surfaced.

"What the hell went wrong?" "How did we end in this mess?" Typical questions,
which usually aren't even thought to this precision.

And of course i knew the formal answers to these questions. I could go through
the chain of events the night and find a causality for everything. But that
wasn't satisfying at all. Faced with consequences of my past actions, i could
see so many opportunities to fix it up; the fact that i couldn't foresee them
was not an excuse, but rather a reason to blame myself.

I didn't notice when i started to grind my teeth in a helpless rage. When i
noticed, i realized that i had already spent too much time in a less than
comfortable position in a crashed vehicle. Furthermore, situation was still far
from being resolved. Getting rid of annoying safety pillow, i stumbled out of
the car and unsteadily walked forward.

It was dark. After a long night journey through the forest, i only now truly
entered the real night, not lighten up by head- or emergency lights. After a few
steps, the dim lights from the car disappeared and the only other source of
light was dark cloudy sky. For a few moments i became engulfed in this darkness
and thoughts on the present situation had completely drifted away.

I was alone in the wild night forest.

From here i could go anywhere. Nobody would find me. I could just send the whole
stupid world to hell and leave all the troubles to whoever didn't dare. But then
i couldn't. Couldn't do anything.

    ***

Sustainability of the Source was put under question. It was, indeed, doubtful
that anyone could achieve something grandiose like that. And yet the scientists
kept trying, keep trying today and will probably keep trying forever, or rather
until life puts their efforts under its own question.
