Sasha papers, pt IV
-------------------

So i've decided to cut the previous "chapter" on this cool cliffhanger, but
really the time gap in-between writing was only filled with one cup of
tea.. Actually, half of a cup.

Back in the train, the atmosphere of upcoming party was already unfolding. We've
just finished with acquainting and someone was already holding a stack of cards.

"Как старомодно" ("how old-schooled"), said rocker dude, but joined the game
nevertheless. That said, it wasn't as old-schooled as one could think: after a
brief discussion we decided to play a game supposedly invented in the same year
as the Earth was first properly flown over by a non-refilling aircraft (if you
can't parse that later part of this sentence, that's ok; i have troubles with it
on re-read also; but i won't make excuses for the random info dump).

...

Luckily we ended up on the same team with Isabella. I would've probably betrayed
my team otherwise. As is, we continued to play out our roles, until both of us
were prosecuted. She fell first and i even managed to avenge her, but had to pay
appropriate price for that.

But we didn't stop after the first game either. In the next one we were divided
by cruel fate; a game after — together again. I was inventing crazy stories
based on the game in my head, and perhaps that contributed to my team losing
every time. In the end, it didn't matter much — it's the fun that counts.

At some point, we started to get bored and somebody proposed to play another
kind of party game. One even more recent, and designed specifically to force
people into learning about each other. For some reason we were still playing
with cards, but i think nobody actually had a good understanding of their
purpose. After struggling to keep up with entangled mess of the rules, we mostly
gave up and were exchanging random questions and answers.

It turned out that the Red Rocker had just gotten into being rocker: he played
jazz guitar for over ten years. Never having his own band, he played sessions
with different people and once upon a time fell into unrequited love with a
singer girl he played a few gigs with. After chasing her band for a few more
towns, he eventually broke off and, after a night wandering around bars and
pubs, decided it's time to scream what's on his mind. Now he was going to
reunite with his new band's members and celebrate their first gig.

Magister Occam had to admit a lot of things i already knew about him. So did i —
told a bunch of stories which were so familiar to me — stories which almost
ceased to existed as part of my past, which almost became purely stories.

Sasha — previously described as horny guy, he turned out to share my name —
didn't have much conventionally exciting stories to tell, but whatever he had to
tell he did so with almost surprising passion and skill. Only at the end of our
ride he revealed he used to be big fan of old-school role playing.

And then, of course, there was her: Isabella, former police officer from
overseas. She seemingly hesitated to fill us in on all the details, but
apparently her dismissal was very dramatic and not at all unrelated to her lost
eye.
