Sasha papers, pt III
--------------------

So here i am again, riding the train, but sorry, i'm not going to write much
this time. Why? Cause i'm not alone now. I'm actually in a noisy company and i
have to write this from my phone, pretending i'm sending an important message.

Writing will have to wait until i have some more time to myself, even though i'd
really like to share my impression of my companions: it sure seems like my
long-awaited adventure might have finally started.

...

Just checked in to say that i'm still too busy to write anything. Yeah, i've
arrived at the party, ho-ho!

...

Hmm, it's really hard to get back to writing after so eventful times.

Where should i start? In the ever-present now or from the moment that i stopped
on?

...

Ok, lets start with now. I'm sitting on a chair inside an old freight train car,
which for many years now functions as a home for the station watchman.

Now, what am i doing here? And how did i get here?

On one hand, i could just mention that the watchman is my old acquaintance and
waive the rest of the questions off.

On the other, that's not my goal. I'm supposed to be writing a memoir or
something. So lets go into the past details.

...

I started this so called "chapter" in the train, so lets return there for a
moment. I said i wasn't alone and indeed i was in a company of four other
people, most of whom i just met that day.

...

The only familiar face was Magister Occam, a person you might also recognize if
you still remember talk shows popular ten years ago. Of course, my acquaintance
with him is a bit different, but rumors of us being close friends are a bit
overestimated.

Next character: a horny-looking guy in his late twenties. Perhaps it's unfair
for me to dismiss living people with labels like that, but who said i ought to
be fair in these notes? Next.

Red-haired (auto-correction suggests "red herring", lol) rocker in a white
cloak. Someone to frame into a picture and put on the wall, almost a cartoon
character. But much more nuanced and conflicted in real life. He certainly
deserves a separate chapter (if not book) about him, but unfortunately my famous
"omnipotence" is limited by time.

And finally, of all those people there was one who i found the most interesting
(and also attractive) and who is going to become an important character in my
story. Her name is Isabella, or Bella for short.

At first she looked conspicuously mundane. Next moment i thought she did it on
purpose. Then she turned around and no longer looked that mundane: her other eye
was covered with fringe of hair; hiding behind it was stylish eye bandage.

She sat down in front of me and smiled with a transient smile. When she looked
me in the eyes, i was already captivated.

...

Oh, but this is not a romantic diary. Lets add some action.

3..

..2..

.....1..

Train started with mechanical sounds and hasted through the big city and away.
