Sasha papers, pt I
------------------

"There is a certain similarity between fanfiction and journalism: you need to
write stories in a pre-existing setting."

And who do you think came up with such a quote? Me, of course! Why am i putting
it as an epigraph, then? Because i'm a self-complacent smug, that's why!

Really, to hell with fanfics and journalism (which i have been indulging for
more than half of my life now), i'm going to write a story about my glorious
self. Are you prepared? No? I don't really care.

...

So then, lets start. As i write this, i'm sitting in an interplanetary ship
headed for—— aww, wait a second, i said i won't be writing fanfic this time. So
lets get back to reality: i'm sitting in a distressingly old suburban train.
It's past ten in the evening and i'm starting to feel sleepy, but it's still
more than hour before my destination. Well, i suppose i can blame myself for
choosing such transportation.

Anyway, i've tried to look through the window, but it's too dark to be
interesting. Then i looked at the passengers, but i just wasn't in the mood for
that. So then i picked up my laptop and ended up writing this stuff. I guess
it's just my old habit: write when i have nothing better to do (have i told you
i ended up being professional journalist that way? Well, now i have).

Interestingly enough i hadn't been writing about myself, at least not in recent
years. Even if it was quite often that i gave my characters or plot one or two
details from my life at the moment. I suppose being observant is a good
replacement for having a good imagination.

So then why am i suddenly doing this ramble about myself? There should be a
reason!

...

Well, the reason, i suppose, would be that i have this nice feeling about the
moment (and myself in it). How should i put it? "I've decided to become a new
person and that went better than expected"? Naw, that sounds too dumb even for a
supposedly lightheaded me.

So i guess i should go into a bit more details.

My streak of good mood started yesterday afternoon when i finished my last
article (and don't ask me what it was about: i don't even want to think about it
right now) and sent it off. Then, while i was dancing myself off on the poor old
floor, the payment came. I've become so overjoyed that i just couldn't stop
myself from celebrating it with a little joint.

So while i was high, the idea came to me that at this point i can stop taking
any further jobs and head for an adventure instead. And so i picked a random
direction, packed up my laptop and a few other useful things and rode off on a
first train. Incidentally, it's a bit annoying that english has no single word
for what we call "электричка". That reminds me, why am i even writing in
english?..

Here are a few versions:

* i don't want for other passengers to understand what i'm writing

* i'm tired of having to write in russian for work

* i chat way too much in english on the internets

Satisfied? If not, send me your suggestions, i'm always open.

...

Ha-ha, i hope you have your salt grains prepared. But don't worry, most of what
i say is the truth. You can trust me on this one.

...

So then, today i arrived in a random town, walked around and got on the train
again, all the while occasionally giggling at nothing in particular. And now
i'm here.

I guess that'll pass for the explanation of current affairs. Meanwhile, the
train is getting near the final station, yay! Now i need to wrap this up. Should
i call the thing i wrote today a first chapter? Bah, when i write my fanfics my
chapters are like at least five time longer.

...

Really though, i don't know how to wrap it up. Should i write about my grand
future plans? Should i just leave my sign here?

Nah, writing plans would take too much time and if someone like you happens to
read this, they should already know who am i. Or no, who cares?

I can go for an epic ending: "and now from myself of today, to myself of the
days to come, i shall say: blah-blah-blah", but as you might have expected i'm
not in the mood.

...

So yeah, see you in the next one, i guess?
