Sasha papers, pt II
-------------------

Yo, i'm back. Didn't expect me to continue my rambles? Well, i've gotta
disappoint you: i have too much spare time on my hands. All because my promised
adventures still haven't really started, i suppose.

If you're still wondering about my whereabouts, now i'm at a
not-very-fashionable hotel in this boring megapolis (wait wut? there's no such
word in english dictionary? do i have to write "megalopolis" to get rid of that
annoying spellcheck warning? aww, the world is unfair).

...

What am i doing here? That was the question i asked myself a few times this
morning and never found out the answer. Perhaps i considered that the denser
population the more chances to get into an adventure?..

Who knows, maybe that's wrong and i should consider the opposite idea? Go out
into wilderness with zero population... Yeah, that would totally be an
adventure. Just not the kind i'm looking for.

...

Gotta keep this thing fun.

Gotta keep this thing fun.

Gotta keep this thing fun.

...

And how am i supposed to keep it fun without that adventure? Sure thing, i can
tap on my connections and meet some criminal authorities or something, but that
would be cheating.

"Sasha, when did you decide on such rigid rules?", an old-teacher-like voice
asks.

"They aren't rigid, i just came up with this on the spot", i reply.

...

Ok, so at this point this random travel might end up without anything exciting
happening. Lets just admit that and live with it.

And since going in random directions doesn't help and staying in this
"megalopolis" or whatever the fuck it should be called doesn't help either, i
can as well plan to visit my hometown. If i can't have real adventures, i can at
least play one with friends.

Yeah, considering the S.T.U.F.F. is coming out, it might be not a bad idea at
all. Not at all a bad idea. At all a bad idea not—— No, i must stop myself,
there are way too many permutations.

...

Ok, let me make a few calls and send a few messages and i'll be back.

...

So, i've contacted my old friend Orpheus and he happily invited me to a party.
What a coincidence! He's planning a party just at the time i want to visit him.
I guess maybe i underestimated this boring reality in the end. We'll see.

...

I've still got a few more days here to kill, though. So i should probably
continue my rambling while i still can.

Ah, but it is not so easy to write about myself in this boring hotel room, as it
was in that suburb train. Maybe i should go out and find a better place to write?
But then it's pretty cold outside...

Aww, crap, doesn't matter. I'm too bored in these four walls.

...

And... i'm back. Back to writing, that is, not back to my room. I decided that
writing out would indeed be a better thing and did the most obvious thing: went
into a random cafe, ordered a coffee and a big choco ice-cream and opened my
laptop.

The cafe is almost empty, so i got my stuff pretty soon. And hey, it's
surprisingly tasty, too!

Hmm, it's a pity i'm not doing an illustrated book. Otherwise posting food
photos would be a very appropriate way to fill some space.

"But, it's such a bad taste, Sasha!", the teacher returns.

"You don't understand anything. Bad taste is the whole point here"

...

Are you wondering who is that teacher now? Please, don't embarrass yourself!

...

Lets talk about the waiters here. The one who attended me was a sleek young man
with a slightly careless haircut (just between me and you, i know perfectly well
how those "careless" are made and how they cost more than something more
official).

He certainly has a certain beauty (no, i refuse to use that stupid "handsome"
word!), but there's something bland in his eyes. Good for a glamour journal, but
not really all that interesting. Or at least, so he looks. It's not like i
actually talked to him or something.

Then, there's a short, somewhat clumsy waitress who walked past me a few times.
She's attending that business-bandit-looking old man. I wouldn't be surprised if
he called her just to enjoy the view, for she is quite cute.

...

Hmm, should i hit on her? What do you think?

Yes, you, you, reader! Should i do it? Would you be entertained by that? Or
maybe bored? I've no idea whether you even like romance, let alone some random
lesbian encounters in cafe.

...

Ah well, sorry do disappoint you, but i'm not really in the mood. As much as i'm
trying to pretend to be outgoing, deep inside i'm not the type to flirt with
someone i don't especially like and just find attractive.

So yeah, lets just order one more coffee and be off with it. I suppose i'm going
to write enough for today by that point.

...

What else is there in this cafe? Yeah, i suppose you might be interested, if you
are at all interested in my so called adventures.

Let me see. On a first glance, it's a quintessence of a modern cafe trying hard
to look older than it is. I suppose interior designer described their work as
"Victorian", but in reality everything here shouts to you that it came fresh
from a fully-automatic plant that could only be fantasized about in Victorian
era.

And that's about it. Aww, i'm bad at describing surroundings, ain't i?

...

Whatever, my coffee has ended and i'm beginning to feel bored here. Lets hit the
road.
