Sasha papers, pt V
------------------

Sometimes i think about odd little things.

For example:

Does it count as a lie to say something formally true, but that you can be sure
respondent would interpret wrongly?.. I surely say a lot of those. What about
cases where you can not even guess how your statements might be
interpreted?.. Perhaps I say even more of those. What about behaviour with the
same properties? Can we ever draw the line between broken communication and
telling lies? Most likely, it will be a fuzzy one. And humans tend to have a
problem with those.

    ***

For example:

The scariest part about your life is that it never ends. Sure, you may die, but
unless you believe in afterlife (which kinda begs the question), you will never
actually be there to experience that your life has ended. Until the very last
moment you'll still be living and afterwards you just won't be around to rest
and look back on your life as a thing of past.

This is a huge contrast compared to how we're used to all things having an
end. But do they, really? Or is it just another of our modes of perception that
makes us think that way and consider it the only reasonable possibility? I'll
leave this question as an exercise to the reader.

    ***

For example:

Who was the first to create this umbrella term "drugs" that doesn't make much
sense, except maybe for pushing people into either being "clean" or "hardcore
junkies"? Who benefits from that?

    ***

For example:

Why do people keep on going with their lives, as if nothing happened? As if
nothing is happening right now?

    ***

Now why am i writing all of this here instead of telling my story? Because the
story came to a halt, to a point where my writing has caught up with the present
and the present is not moving anywhere. Because i don't want to write about
yesterday's accident, and writing about today's mundanity of waiting isn't going
to be much fun either. Because, finally, i'm afraid, and that's not a feeling i
want to put on this blog.

I don't know what else to do, what to write about.
