
------------------

Sitting in a comfortable seat of an air charter flying across continent, i tried
to forget about the cold harsh reality of outside world that laid both in the
past and in the future of that unexpected flight. Well, sometimes i think that,
on the contrary, it is those moments of relaxation and thinking that are
reality, and the rest of my life is not much different from a film or a video
game.

But how much of this is really worth considering and how much of it is just
playing with language? Useless question.

Back then, in that plane i didn't really think of these highly abstract concepts
that i sometimes like to ponder on now. Back then, after i've successively rid
my mind of present problems, it uncontrollably sunk into the past.

    ***

Woooo-ooo-oosh-----

The raising sound of the engine.

Flap-flap-flap---ta-ta-ta---zhzhzh

The sound of copter blades chopping the air.

????

????

My first flight. Not first flight ever, but rather first *my* flight. The time
when i rule the air around. When a few worthless precious lives depend on me.
When the decision whether this two ton machinery will continue functioning or
not is mine and mine alone.

    ***

Y A, What did it mean?
Y B, What do you think?
Y C forever C forever!..
the flight and kaif and life will end
today or tomorrow
the .... will amend
through endless endless endle-ess.. sorrow

    ***

Returning to the present, i noticed myself completely alone in a fashionable
scarlet room. Well, perhaps "room" is too big a word for it. Cabin, perhaps?

Ah, yes, now i remember. What time is it? 8:44 UTC, huh? Still a few more hours
of flying. A few more hours of being in the moment that can end abruptly at any
moment. Failing engines, wrongly warped wings, a thick flock of unfortunate
birds whose screams you will never hear; even something as banal as stray
missile or meteorite can finish this fragile existence that we like to call *our
lives*.

Even something as simple as wing "flapping" can put nervous people into the
state of uncontrollable fear. Take offs and landings can make people puke their
souls out. Even though i apparently kept mine, i can still vividly remember my
own experience of the first flight. And then after the first came second, third,
forth, fifth, sixth.. and i still couldn't sit still for a few more years. I
stopped counting only at sixteenth because then the count reached my age and i
decided that if i don't stop fearing it that year, i'll never be able to. I
forced myself to stop fearing.

Or rather tried to. I made an ultimatum to myself. I vowed that i would keep
constantly flying for five years if i wouldn't stop fearing by the end of the
year. As could be expected, i didn't precisely define neither "stop fearing" nor
"constantly flying". I never ended up evaluating whether i passed the test. But
shortly after i was admitted into helicopter flying school.

    ***

Somehow, i ended up daydreaming again. The cabin was still as red and empty as
it was before. I tuned the engine noise back in. Of course, it sounded
alien. But otherwise it sounded as if everything was normal. I turned to the
windows and opened luxury velvet shades. The world outside turned out to be
unnaturally white.

— How nice! We can pretend we're left all alone in the world, can't we, Izzy? Or
would you prefer to entertain the idea that we were alone always?

I waited for an answer for a few moments. Then my voice continued:

— Why do you always have to say words "pretend", Izzy? We're all alone in the
whole world. The world is ours alone. There is nobody, nobody, nobody else.

Not the most unexpected thing to hear from yourself at such moments, i guess.

— It is kinda weird, isn't it? Things that are supposed to happen, do happen.
And all that's left for us is to watch them happening. You watch me talking to
you, i watch you listening to me.

Yeah, even then, even back then it was all the same. Flying through the fire,
listening to the radio dying and comrades exploding just outside my window, i
was still talking to myself, telling myself that the world is ours. Even
noticing a weird warm feeling in the place where my eye was just a few moments
ago, even losing consciousness. I was always alone. I was never alone.

    ***

The never-ending train. There is a head carriage, but there is no tail one.
There is a departure station, but there is no destination.

    ***

Finally, my train of thought is interrupted by another human being entering the
scarlet cabin. Human eyes, not any less human ears on the human scull properly
covered by skin — he looked funny. I was staring at him perhaps too
scrutinizingly: he almost reached his hand to wipe his face of something that
wasn't there. Then he smiled at me with his pretendingly tired smile.

— It seems that our fate has a weird sense of irony, — said the tall man not
wearing black leather, but still vainly attempting to reproduce british
accent.

— How should you know, maybe i just like to stalk you, Mr. Blue?

— To me that would still mean our fate is humorous, Ms. Isabella.

— It's certainly reassuring that a man of your profession can still laugh.

— On the contrary, nobody can do it without a few laughs now and then. It's
really "laugh or die" in this business. I'm actually surprised how could you
order somebody so cold-handedly and neither laughed nor cried about it.

— How should you know that i haven't did either in private? Were *you* stalking
me?

— Hmm, how should i put it? You don't look like it?

— Nice explanation.

— There are things one can tell, but not explain.

— This isn't really going anywhere, is it?

— Not unless you make it. Even this thing, — Blue gestured around the cabin,
suggesting the plane that we were supposed to be in, — would not go anywhere
unless *you* make it so.

I hesitated for a while. My first reaction was to answer "what about you?", but
then i decided that this isn't a kind of question that would be answered. If he
even meant anything, he would want me to get it myself without additional
explanations.

— Well, it's not like i need it to land right know or anything. I don't mind
flying through this nowhere for a little longer.

He didn't reply "as you wish", but his silence seemed to suggest as much. No one
spoke for a while. Then it occurred to me that there is no apparent reason for
Blue's visit. Did he really come just for the small talk?

— Actually, i did want to ask you something, — suddenly he answered my thoughts.

— Well, i didn't expect a man like you to visit me for no reason at all.

— Still thinking i'm that kind of cold blooded killer who are so popular in pop
culture?

— Feel free to change my opinion.

— Thanks for permission. Anyway, it's not even so much of a single question. But
i guess i have to start somewhere. Do you like books?

Finishing off previous topic, he finally brought up another strange subject. In
retrospective, it could have even been an expected one, but at the time i barely
knew anything about him.

— Books, huh? Let me see. I certainly know a lot of people who love them much
more than i do. But then there are as many people who read a lot less than
me. And from another perspective.. well, i do like certain books, but what
should it even mean to like books at large?

— For someone who uses them for cryptography, that's a bit unexpected
ambiguity. Or, on the contrary, something i had to anticipate? But that aside,
should i perhaps answer your question?

I turned my head questionably: for a moment i didn't understand that he's going
to answer my semi-rhetoric question.

— Most of us have choice, — or should i even say "freedom"? — how to spend our
time. And while some may still prefer to liberate themselves from this burden
and shift decision-making onto others, the choice once made still shapes our
personality and consciousness. We can choose whether we'd like to read books,
watch movies, play games, hang out with friends, kill people for money or talk
about some nonsense on ten kilometer altitude. If you tend to choose books over
other activities you find pleasant, we can say you like them.

— That's a bit too generic, don't you think? Have you thought about
informativeness of choice? Alice might choose books every time simply because
her friends always have a nice one to recommend, but they don't recommend any
movies. Her friend Bob has spent a lot of time consuming various forms of media
and then concluded he gets max fun from reading. And, for the sake of it, Cecil
has literally met god who using infinite simulations of possible lives has given
her sorted list of things she should experience for maximum subjective
enjoyment, and it turned out a lot of books were on top of it. But in the end
each of them might say "i like books".

— I could probably think of an objection towards your god example, but setting
that aside, hey, turns out you do know what it means to "like books".

— No. I know what some people may mean by it, but i also know that others might
disagree with such usage. And i have no idea what usage should i adapt for
myself.

— If we start to question our intuition too much, would we even be able to talk?
You're probably doing enough considerations already.

— What do you even know about me?

— But i guess we didn't have to go on that tangle, — he ignored my line and
returned to the "books" topic, — More or less, i understand your attitude. Isn't
it kinda hilarious that people still write "books", though? Some actually still
print them, but even setting that aside, isn't it a form that continues dying
for far too long?

— Why books, though? Traditionalist relationships, religions, politics — our
life is shaped by things which are hopelessly outdated. Besides, books still
have one of the biggest potential at being auteur. You'd need pretty strong AI
to build story that reflects author's intention as precise in other media.

— Is that so? One could say being "auteur" is an outdated concept in itself, but
i guess that would always be a matter of opinion... I would even like to agree
with your "everything outdated" concept, but then isn't that also natural? Ideas
may spread slowly to our tastes, but compared to biological evolution, they are
actually blazing fast.

— Well, any comparative statement is useless if we allow ourselves to freely
change point of view.

— Speak of correct, but useless statements..

— "Speak of communication..", more like.

— Oh, i don't even know what to add now.

— Maybe you shouldn't?

Finally, this strange conversation is put to a halt. Whatever mind games we were
trying to play now enter a limbo.
